# Online Platform Use Among Teens

## Motivation
I wanted to explore data that pertained to social media usage among U.S. teens. I had a particular focus on comparing social media usage between boys and girls, and see if there were any differences or similarities worth learning. The question I was looking to answer was "between boys and girls, which has a higher percentage of online platform use?" Considering our modern day and age, online platform usage is a very relevant topic in accordance to U.S. teenagers, and is frankly somewhat concerning considering how much social media makes up a teenager's life.

## Data Sources
I started off by typing into the web browser Google Chrome "Online Platform Use Among Teens." As expected, many results came up; many of which had interesting data that I could have used. I ended up choosing the link "pewresearch.org" and clicked the first visual that appeared. After looking through the various visuals, the seventh page had information that peaked my interest. It was titled "Online platform use among U.S. teens, by demographic group," and it included data gathered from a survey focused on voluntary participants. I saw the potential for analysis, and thus selected the variables and values to use for my project. Since I couldn't find a way to properly convert the data into a csv (comma separated file), I had to manually create a csv on GitHub in my repository. Since my original question pertained to social media usage among boys and girls, I used the "U.S. teens," "Boys," and the "Girls" rows and left the remaining rows out. I drew from the data all of the social media platforms formatted as columns, and after coding a csv file for the data I selected, it created a 3 by 8 table displaying "U.S. teens," "Boys," and the "Girls" rows with the 8 columns pertaining to the social media platforms.

## Visualization

## Analysis
My analysis of the data I had selected was not overly complex. It was a straight-forward and simple approach, because I wasn't trying to answer a difficult question. I merely wanted to compare the percentages of social media platform use between U.S. boys and girls. Thus, I performed simple exploratory data analysis (EDA) by finding the five number summary for each column. I was particulary focused on comparing the minimum, maximum, and median, because I believed it would be interesting to see the difference between the percentages associated with each platform. I looked at the median for each platform first: YouTube 85%, Instagram 72%, Snapchat 69%, Facebook 51%, Twitter 32%, Tumblr 9%, Reddit 7%. I found this to not be all that surprising, but thinking about the numbers, this accounts for only U.S. teens. More than half of the U.S. teens surveyed know and use YouTube, Instagram, Snapchat, and Facebook. That shows just how involved social media is in the lives of U.S. teens. After comparing the medians, I started to look at the minimums and maximums of each column. The minimums were as follows: YouTube 81% (Girls), Instagram 69% (Boys), Snapchat 67% (Boys), Facebook 49% (Boys), Twitter 32% (Girls), Tumblr 9% (both), Reddit 4% (Girls). I then viewed the maximums: YouTube 89% (Boys), Instagram 75% (Girls), Snapchat 72% (Girls), Facebook 53% (Girls), Twitter 33% (Boys), Tumblr 9% (both), Reddit 11% (Boys). Comparing these numbers, I came to the conclusion that girls primarily use the social media platforms that serve the purpose of communicating with others. Boys seem to be more active than girls on online platforms that serve the purpose of entertaining the user, with the exception of Twitter by a only 1%.
